Categories: Language	
Education
School Enrollment









CLICK male or female picture, yellow
CLICK age group buttons below 
use slider for percentile 

STEPS
- User selects person's age and gender 
NOPE - BACK END returns what % of the population is that selected person's profile from AGE BY SEX 	table %'s for study area
	- so table looks like [young male, young female, child male, child female, mid twenties male... 
	- by using if statements -> 
		if gender == female AND age = 25 or age = 29 etc 
			return category = young female 
NOPE - then plug this into the age by sex table to get the % distribution that this category lies in 

- Then we return the table for this category to use for calculations. [Tables for each age/sex category have been made since]. Table contains population numbers for 
	- Income bins
	- educational attainment bins
	- travel time to work bins
	- school enrollment bins??
	- language spoken at home bins
	- means of transportation to work bins 

- Then calculate the percentiles from frequency distribution 
	- separate the binned groups
	- for each one: transpose the data 
NOPE - calculate the relative frequency as % 
		[multidimensional tables, proportions]
NOPE - maybe how to do this is reverse engineer the bins and THEN get the percentile from the new values
	- calculate percentiles for ordered categorical
		- just sort the range and then calculate the percentile

- And people get to pick from those percentiles to return values for each category that feeds into the text generation
	- So 20th% of this person category gives what value for each table?
	- and what smaller category does this correspond with 
		eg what travel time to work? 
	- do this by saying for this table return whatever row from'name' field if value == percentile 	returned value

SO calculating the percentile for the frequency distribution
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36944884/calculating-percentile-for-specific-groups

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39581893/pandas-find-percentile-stats-of-a-given-column
The standard normal distribution can also be useful for computing percentilestext annotation indicator. For example, the median is the 50th percentile, the first quartile is the 25th percentile, and the third quartile is the 75th percentile. In some instances it may be of interest to compute other percentiles, for example the 5th or 95th. The formula below is used to compute percentiles of a normal distribution.

https://www.sociologicalscience.com/download/vol-4/november/SocSci_v4_641to655.pdf

---------------------------------------
age income scatterplot
age income education
can select points off there

BUT we've got a problem bc ... there are multiple bins for age income and education 

look up exploring the census income etc datasets with charts 

DP03_0051E	Estimate!!INCOME AND BENEFITS (IN 2018 INFLATION-ADJUSTED DOLLARS)!!Total households

SOOOO can basically get the average income and ages from taking midpoints of the bins...but that still leaves us with literally one value where we need a chart

so going from 10 people w 10000 to 50000 income and 50 people with /// in one place 
to average income in one place is x 
but you also have a distribution bc you're gonna have 

going to generate a new from the one row of --> summary stats in study area 

honestly make a summary stats table ??
 
where it is just 500ppl * $50000 / total num of people = mean income of the area

but what is the distribution?????
why does it matter
	basically a probability problem 
		a "young" person is likely to be broke if within 25% of the distribution of people in her age group
			ok so do i have to make different tables for diff age groups? 
but 25% of the population = 25 years old really doesnt correlate with anything to do with income, education, travel time, etc
oooooooh maybe age by sex, those types of tables are actually useful???

SEX BY AGE 
and then go to the other table and say - within this age group, x% have bachelor degrees etc
SO if user selects "female", "25 years old"... and then says i want the "average" person
	Hi there, a typical woman living in this area has a fun-filled life. She's likely to have completed some form of graduate degree.
	Makes xyz income 
	Has an easy commute
	Her life could involve going to high end places such as ... (if the income here is big) or for a treat uno 

Add a bunch of sex by age datasets 
SOOOO basically loops through the dataset for the selected person ; who is age, sex, where they lie on the distribution.maybe what %of people this person is representative of??? 
	if age is 18 to 24: SEX BY AGE BY EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENT FOR THE POPULATION 18 YEARS AND OVER	
	if age is 25 and above: use SEX BY AGE BY EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENT FOR THE POPULATION 25YEARS AND OVER	
	if age is below 18 use: nothing
	

age and sex maybe??? for knowing what % of the population the selected person falls under
	so then this person is likely to be ... avg
	within that, the outliers of this age group
	

SEX OF WORKERS BY MEANS OF TRANSPORTATION TO WORK 
	not this MEANS OF TRANSPORTATION TO WORK BY AGE	
SEX OF WORKERS BY TIME LEAVING HOME TO GO TO WORK	
SEX OF WORKERS BY TRAVEL TIME TO WORK	

basically there will be a table for : male 15 to 19 years, male 20 to 34 years etc ... or tbh for young male, middle aged, etc but ppl pick actual ages 
	and then these tables have education, income, married etc 
and therewill be some tables just for age and some just for sex 

first thing calculate what the % breakdown is for each category within the study area
then see where that fits in with what & of the population is 25 and male?